[WIP - do not merge] Content section for writing guidelines in EUI (#7710)
elastic/eui: website/docs/03_content/inclusivity.mdx

---
slug: inclusivity
title: Inclusivity
---

> These guidelines are intended for all content authors, whether you are a developer, a designer, or a writer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These guidelines are intended for all content authors. 
```

> This page is not exhaustive but provides some guidelines to write inclusive UI copy for product content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page provides guidelines for writing inclusive UI copy for product content but it's not exhaustive.
```

## What is inclusive content and why does it matter

**Inclusivity** for content means making sure that the content we serve reflects the diversity of our community, respects it, and promotes positive change. 

## Guidelines

### Write for an international audience
 
Our products use American English (en_US) as a standard for written content. 
Yet they are used, read by persons all around the globe, for whom English is not always their primary language.
Our content must take that into account.

✔️ **Aim for simplicity.** Indeed, we are a technical company, writing for 
  technically-savvy users. However, it benefits everyone if we try to keep our writing as simple as possible.

  * **Short sentences** - They leave less space for interpretation. They are easier to scan, read, and translate.

  * **Plain language** -  Use active voice, present tense, using examples, and so on. 
  Some of these guidelines might already look familiar. Several countries have 
  [plain language initiatives](https://www.plainlanguage.gov/guidelines/) to 
  promote clearer communication. Do your 
  best to embrace these guidelines and focus on the message.

>   * **Negation** - It is generally easier on everyone to say what something IS 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Negation** - It is easier to say what something IS 
```

In our Elastic documentation we aim for a fun, friendly, and sometimes quirky 
tone. To achieve that, it can help to use informal, playful language. However, we also have to be careful that our text is as inclusive as possible, so we try to avoid expressions that might be unknown or opaque for some users. Here are a few examples of what to avoid:
  
* Idioms (for example, _It's a piece of cake_ or _So far so good_)
* Regional expressions (for example, _G'day!_, _Y'all_, or _eh_)
* Sports expressions (for example, _touched base_ or _threw a curve ball_)
* Pop culture references (for example, _Elvis has left the building_ or _Same bat-time, same bat-channel_)

We're all pretty good at avoiding these, but there's one problematic type of 
expression that sometimes shows up in UI copy. Latin terms and 
abbreviations are a common source of confusion, particularly for people whose 
first language does not have Latin roots.

Here are some terms to avoid and suggested alternatives:

| Avoid      |  | Use instead     |
--- | --- | ---
| _e.g._ (exempli gratia) | → | _for example_ | 
| _etc._ (et cetera) | → | _and more_ or _and so on_ |
| _i.e._ (id est) | → | _that is_ |

> | _via_ | → | _by way of_, _by means of_, or _through_ |

Reviewer 2: We could link to the word choice docs after this table for more suggestions.

> ✔️ **Aim for readability.** Tools like the Hemingway App can help you make content simpler. Be conversational, but prioritize clarity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
✔️ **Aim for readability.** Tools like the [Hemingway App](https://hemingwayapp.com/) can help you make content simpler. Be conversational, but prioritize clarity.
```

### Avoid violent, offensive, ableist terminology

Earlier in this page, we discussed avoiding ambiguous terms, especially when a word's intended meaning is 
not its primary meaning. Other types of words and phrases best avoided are:

* buzzwords (_incentivize_, _synergies_)
* superhero terms (_rockstar_, _wizard_, _ninja_)
* violent imagery (_crush the competition_)
* non-specific superlatives (_unrivaled_, _unparalleled_, _world class_)

Some words have nuances that fall into the above categories, which may cause 
them to be misinterpreted. Here are some alternatives:

| Avoid      |      | Use instead   |
--- | --- | ---
| Abort	     | → | _stop_, _cancel_, or _end_ |
| Boot 	     | → | _start_ or _run_ |
| Execute     | → | _run_ or _complete_ |
| Hack (noun) | → | _tip_ or _workaround_ |
| Hack (verb) | → | _configure_ or _modify_ |
| Hit (verb)  | → | _click_ or _press_ |
| Hit (noun)  | → | _visits_ (as in _website visits_) |
| Invalid     | → | _not valid_ or _incorrect_ |
| Kill		  | → | _cancel_ or _stop_ |

> | Terminate	  | → | _stop_ or _exit_ |

Reviewer 2: Could also link to the word choice docs after this table as well.
